Article
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-024-55018-y
Facile synthesis of nanoporous Mg
crystalline structure by organic solvent-
based reduction for solid-state hydrogen
storage
Hyesun Kim1,9, HyeonJi Kim1,9, Wonsik Kim2, Choah Kwon3, Si-Won Jin4,
Taejun Ha5, Jae-Hyeok Shim4,6, Soohyung Park
2,7, Aqil Jamal8,
Sangtae Kim
3
& Eun Seon Cho
1
Nanoporous metals have unique potentials for energy applications with a high
surface area despite the percolating structure. Yet, a highly corrosive envir-
onment is required for the synthesis of porous metals with conventional
dealloying methods, limiting the large-scale fabrication of porous structures
for reactive metals. In this study, we synthesize a highly reactive Mg nano-
porous system through a facile organic solution-based approach without any
harsh etching. The synthesized nanoporous Mg also demonstrates enhanced
hydrogen sorption kinetics and reveals unique kinetic features compared to
Mg nanoparticles. The well-crystallized Mg nanoporous structure exhibits
crystalline facet-dependent hydrogen sorption characteristics, featuring gra-
dually improved hydrogen storage capacity up to 6 wt.% upon cycling. Also,
continuum kinetics models coupled to atomistic simulations reveal that the
compressive stress developed during the hydrogenation of nanoporous Mg
enhances the sorption kinetics, as opposed to the sluggish kinetics under
tensile stress in core-shell nanoparticles. It is expected that the synthetic
strategy conceived in this study can be further implemented to prepare dif-
ferent kinds of reactive porous metals in a facile and scalable way for the
development of large-scale and distributed hydrogen storage systems for the
emerging low-carbon hydrogen economy.
Hydrogen as a carbon-free energy carrier can contribute to meeting
the world’s growing energy needs in a reliable, affordable, and sus-
tainable manner1,2. Hydrogen-powered fuel cells provide clean energy,
offering
a
highly
efﬁcient
and
reliable
system
without
the
intermittency of other renewable energy3. Global hydrogen demand is
expected to grow signiﬁcantly. One of the key challenges in estab-
lishing a commercially viable hydrogen supply chain is to cost-
effectively store and transport hydrogen over large distances in a
Received: 24 February 2023
Accepted: 25 November 2024
Check for updates
1Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST), Daejeon, Republic of Korea.
2Advanced Analysis Center, Korea Institute of Science and Technology (KIST), Seoul, Republic of Korea. 3Department of Nuclear Engineering, Hanyang
University, Seoul, Republic of Korea. 4Center for Hydrogen Energy Materials, Korea Institute of Science and Technology (KIST), Seoul, Republic of Korea.
5Functional Materials and Components R&D Group, Korea Institute of Industrial Technology (KITECH), Gangneung, Gangwon, Republic of Korea. 6KIST-SKKU
Carbon-Neutral Research Center, Sungkyunkwan University (SKKU), Suwon, Gyeonggi, Republic of Korea. 7Division of Nano & Information Technology, KIST
School, University of Science and Technology (UST), Seoul, Republic of Korea. 8Carbon Management Research Division, Research and Development Center,
Saudi Aramco, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. 9These authors contributed equally: Hyesun Kim, HyeonJi Kim.
e-mail: sangtae@hanyang.ac.kr; escho@kaist.ac.kr
Nature Communications|   (2024) 15:10800 
1
1234567890():,;
1234567890():,;

reliable and safe manner due to its very low volumetric energy density
at ambient conditions, which bridges the gap between hydrogen
production and fuel cells. Physical hydrogen storage systems typically
demand harsh conditions such as a high-pressure tank (up to 700 bar)
for gas or cryogenic temperature (20.2 K) for liquid, still suffering from
a low volumetric storage density and substantial energy loss by boil-
off, respectively4,5. In this respect, solid-state hydrogen storage can be
a viable option for offering a high storage density as well as ultimately
ensuring operational safety and low cost.
In particular, metal hydrides received a large amount of research
attention for efﬁcient solid-state hydrogen storage since the lightweight
metal intrinsically allows a high gravimetric and volumetric storage
density. Also, metal hydrides have modest equilibrium pressure over
hydrogen, thereby granting relatively low pressure below 100 bar for
hydrogen storage6, which not only leads to a reduction in cost but also
allows efﬁcient storage and stability. Among a variety of metal hydrides,
MgH2 is considered a promising candidate due to its availability and
high hydrogen storage capacity, amounting to 7.6 wt%7,8, which makes it
suitable for mobile applications9. Despite the aforementioned merits of
Mg as a solid-state hydrogen storage system, the sluggish kinetics of
hydrogen ab/desorption caused by the dissociation of hydrogen
molecules on the surface and the slow diffusion of hydrogen atoms into
the bulk phase of Mg results in prolonged re/discharging10. It also
requires a high desorption temperature because of thermodynamically
stable MgH2−indicative of a strong Mg-H binding11,12. Furthermore, Mg is
highly reactive and vulnerable to oxidation and other undesirable
reactions even with a trace amount of foreign species13.
Many research efforts have been devoted to offset the dis-
advantages of bulk Mg, such as tuning surface oxidation14, severe
plastic deformation15,16, catalyst addition, and incorporation of differ-
ent species17,18. Among other strategies, many studies demonstrated
the promise of nanoscaled Mg in enhancing hydrogen storage
properties19. The high surface-to-volume ratio and smallcrystalline size
increase the exposed surface of Mg for hydrogen sorption. The size of
crystallite in the nanoscale can reduce the diffusion distance of
hydrogen or provide a faster diffusion pathway by adding defects9,14,20.
Furthermore, it is possible to improve the hydrogen storage perfor-
mance of Mg via transition metal doping, which lowers the activation
energy barriers of the hydrogen adsorption and dissociation process,
serving as a catalyst21,22. Although transition metal doping is mainly
employed in terms of kinetic enhancement, it also collaterally changes
the thermodynamic properties by forming an alloy with Mg9,13, wherein
the strong Mg-H bonding state is weakened to enable hydrogen ab/
desorption at a lower temperature.
Meanwhile, nanoporous metals have been formulated, taking
advantage of both nanosized and porous structures. In addition to
organic framework-based porous materials, such nanoporous metal
structures can be effectively utilized in various ﬁelds due to their
tunable pore structure, large speciﬁc surface area, and high electrical
conductivity. These structural characteristics have the advantages of
increased reactive sites between reactants as well as improved electron
mobility and thermal conductivity along metal ligaments. In addition,
it potentially allows faster kinetics for molecular or atomic transport,
attributed to a facilitated diffusion pathway through the pores. In this
regard, the nanoporous Mg structure enables the expedited transport
of hydrogen through pores, simultaneously improving the hydrogen
sorption kinetics by effectively reducing the diffusion length due to its
large surface area and nanosized ligaments. Also, the potential struc-
tural collapse caused by a volume change upon hydrogen ab/deso-
rption−corresponding to 33% for Mg−can be alleviated through the
porous structure20,23.
There are several methods to generate porous metal structures
such as template synthesis, surfactant-mediated synthesis, and
dealloying24,25. The most well-known and reported to be effective is
dealloying, in which case porous metals can be obtained by
preferentially removing less noble metals from metal alloys via che-
mical or electrochemical etching26. However, it requires a laborious
step of preparing a homogeneous metal alloy precursor as a starting
material for the sake of a uniform structure27, and more critically this
dealloying method relies on the use of a corrosive acid or base as an
etching solution28–31. Based on such approaches, different kinds of
porous metals have been prepared, mostly the synthesis of transition
metals such as Au, Pd, Pt, Ag, Cu, and Zn28–31. However, in the case of
various alkali and alkaline earth metals which are largely exploited for
energy applications, few studies on the synthesis of porous structures
were reported. Such highly reactive metals are vulnerable to oxygen
and moisture, easily losing their unique characteristics by reacting with
those impurities−even with a minimal amount. Accordingly, under a
corrosive environment in the conventional method, reactive metals
would readily react with oxygen and inevitably produce a substantial
amount of dead mass, which is undesirable for targeted applications.
In this report, we synthesized porous Mg nanostructures through
a solution-based method without a corrosive etching for advanced
solid-state hydrogen storage. As opposed to conventional dealloying
using metal alloys under harsh environments, metal compounds are
employed as a starting material whereby a porous structure is evolved
in the solution of an organic reducing agent due to the difference of
reduction potentials. By selectively dissolving anions from the initial
compound via a reduction-induced decomposition (RID), nanoporous
metal structures can be obtained through percolation dissolution32,33.
The bicontinuous nanoporous Mg structure with a small ligament size
contributes to facilitating hydrogen transport. Essentially, we report
the synthesis of porous nanostructure for reactive metals such as Mg
under mild conditions without corrosive reagents. Furthermore, given
that porous metal structures evolve spontaneously upon an adequate
selection of the reducing solution and the target porous metal in
consideration of their reduction potentials, this approach can be
readily adapted to prepare various kinds of reactive porous metals for
advanced energy applications.
Results
Nanoporous Mg structure via a facile solution-based reduction-
induced decomposition
In this study, nanoporous Mg structures–pristine porous Mg (pMg)
and transition metal doped porous Mg (porous Mg/Ni and Mg/Co
bimetallic
system,
referred
to
as
pMgNi
and
pMgCo,
respectively)–were synthesized via a facile solution-based one-pot RID
method, in which an organic solvent is employed as a reducing agent
(please see “Method” section and also Supplementary Note 1 for
details), whereas a conventional dealloying approach to preparing
porous metals utilizes a strong acid as an etching solvent. The pre-
cursor material for RID was prepared by completely melting the cor-
responding metal compound powder (MgCl2) at a temperature above
its melting point to form a single mass. Subsequently, the insoluble
precursor was immersed in a highly reductive lithium naphthalenide
solution at room temperature, evolving into a porous structure. Fig-
ure 1a illustrates the process of such reduction reaction, followed by
the formation of a porous structure and its hydrogen sorption. While
the cations are reduced to a zero-valent metal structure, the counter
anion Xm (for example, Cl in the case of MgCl2) must be successfully
eluted into the solution phase, and accordingly, a solvent with high
anion solubility is selected32. The metal nucleation occurs at the
interface between the metal precursor and the reductive solution, and
the full-scale metal phase formation occurs. Through the low inter-
facial energy between the metal phase and the metal compound, the
newly formed metal phase is connected to the metal compound
without being separated into the solution to form the bicontinuous
metal ligament structure34,35.
In the previous study, the continuum percolation theory provides
a volumetric threshold pv for the continuous formation of porous
Article
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-024-55018-y
Nature Communications|   (2024) 15:10800 
2

structures without structural collapse32,36. The appropriate range of the
molar volume change between metal compound and pure metal (ΔV m)
is proposed as pv< ΔV m<1  pv (volumetric threshold, pv ~ 14–16%), in
which all kinds of 3-dimensional structures are feasible37. Accordingly,
the upper and lower limit for volume change between the metal
compound and the pure metal generated during dissolution is
obtained, which corresponds to 14–16% and 84–86%32. Speciﬁcally, the
theoretical molar volume change between MgCl2 and Mg is calculated
to be 65.93%, and this value falls within the aforementioned range;
therefore, the relevant percolation dissolution of Mg compound into
pure Mg is expected with open pores and continuous metal phase.
Furthermore, a bimetallic porous structure composed of Mg and
transition metal (Ni, Co) was also synthesized via the same protocol,
along with the addition of a small amount (5 mol.%) of a transition
metal compound in the initial step of melting to form a single mass. In
this study, NiI2 and CoCl2 were selected, based on their similar melting
points with MgCl2 and higher reduction potentials than lithium
naphthalenide.
Both pristine and bimetallic pMg systems exhibit a distinct Mg
crystalline structure in the X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns, without
any peak corresponding to the precursor MgCl2 or impurities (Fig. 1b-
d). This indicates that the precursor MgCl2 is successfully converted
into the well-deﬁned Mg crystalline structure through the reduction.
Even though some residual impurities including Cl are identiﬁed in the
XPS survey scan (Supplementary Fig. 1 and Supplementary Note 2), a
high hydrogen capacity of porous Mg supports that it mostly consists
of metallic Mg, which will be discussed in the later section. Interest-
ingly, pMg exhibits a notably high peak intensity for the Mg (002)
close-packed plane compared to that of typical polycrystalline Mg.
This suggests that Mg crystals were textured with a speciﬁc preference
on the close-packed plane with the lowest surface energy in our
system, attributed to the sufﬁciently slow diffusion-based reduction
reaction38.
The nanoporous Mg structures with irregular pore sizes were
observed in transmission electron microscope (TEM) images (Sup-
plementary Fig. 2). The pores are sized in a range of a few tens of nm,
yet it is rather difﬁcult to distinguish a single pore clearly because the
thin porous Mg layers are stacked on top of each other. Nonetheless,
the metal structure with pores is readily identiﬁed by the HRTEM
images, and the crystalline structure is also conﬁrmed. Scanning
electron microscope (SEM) images (Supplementary Fig. 3) show that
the metal ligaments with a thickness of ~200 nm are continuously
connected, and the open pores between such ligaments in the nano-
porous structure are also presented. The porous characteristics of
pMg,
pMgNi,
and
pMgCo
were
conﬁrmed
with
Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) N2 isotherms, and the corresponding
pore size distributions were obtained using Barrett, Joyner, and
Halenda (BJH) analysis (Fig. 2 and Supplementary Fig. 4). In particular,
the N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms of pMg demonstrate IUPAC
type IV BET curve, indicating the mesoporous structure39. In BJH ana-
lysis, the pore size distribution of porous Mg composites also supports
the presence of mesopores (Supplementary Fig. 5). The porous char-
acteristics for all synthesized structures are summarized in Table 1. The
BET surface area is measured as 3.10–15.89 m2 g−1 with the average pore
width of 23.13–52.68 and 18.98–41.90 nm for adsorption and deso-
rption, respectively. The surface area and average pore size values of
nanoporous Mg are in a similar range with the previous reports (Sup-
plementary Fig. 4e)40,41. These results demonstrate that the nanopor-
ous Mg has been successfully prepared, despite its high reactivity and
intricate control of microstructure. Furthermore, it suggests that other
highly reactive alkali and alkaline earth metals can potentially be
manipulated into an analogous nanoporous structure through a facile
solution-based method.
Fig. 1 | Nanoporous Mg structure via the environmentally benign reduction-
induced decomposition (RID) reaction for solid-state hydrogen storage.
a Schematic illustration of RID reaction (a black porous chunk represents MgCl2
turning into Mg). XRD patterns of as-synthesized (b) pMg, (c) pMgNi, and (d)
pMgCo; the inset is the camera picture of each porous metal powder and the scale
bar is 5 mm. Source data are provided as a Source Data ﬁle.
Article
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-024-55018-y
Nature Communications|   (2024) 15:10800 
3

Hydrogen storage performance of porous Mg structures
To investigate the effect of nanoporous structures on the hydrogen
storage performance of Mg, the kinetic and thermodynamic proper-
ties of hydrogen ab/desorption were evaluated. For the initial survey of
a hydrogen sorption behavior for each nanoporous sample, hydrogen
absorption and desorption were conducted under 15 bar H2 at 200 °C
and under 10−4bar at 300 °C, respectively (Fig. 3). All porous Mg
samples exhibit the hydrogen storage capacity of more than 6 wt.%
calculated from the total weight value, and the phase transformation
from Mg to MgH2 upon hydrogen absorption is conﬁrmed in the
subsequent XRD measurement (Supplementary Fig. 6). Compared to
spherical Mg nanoparticle having an average size of 269 nm similar to
porous Mg, pMg exhibits much faster hydrogen absorption kinetics at
the same condition such as 15 H2 bar at 200 °C (Supplementary Fig. 7).
Even the measurement temperature and hydrogen pressure increase
up to 30 H2 bar and 300 °C, spherical Mg nanoparticles only uptake
~1 wt. % for 24 h. This comparison demonstrates the advantage of
porous structure in the aspect of enhanced hydrogen sorption kinet-
ics. It is noteworthy that the hydrogen uptake capacity is well-
maintained in the bimetallic system−reaching 6.41 wt.% for pMgNi
−despite the dead mass as a result of the addition of transition metal.
Furthermore, pMgNi presents greatly accelerated hydrogen sorption
rates, ascribed to the catalytic Ni dopant which promotes the dis-
sociation of H2 by lowering the related energy barrier42,43. Interestingly,
both hydrogen ab/desorption kinetics and capacity are gradually
enhanced as the cycle proceeds for all three samples–more pro-
nounced for pristine Mg–which is saturated at the 4th cycle. In the case
of the bimetallic system in which a transition metal component is
introduced (pMgNi and pMgCo), the kinetic saturation occurs faster
compared to pure Mg. In the previous studies, it was reported that the
initial activation process is required for metal hydride-based solid-
state hydrogen storage44–47, in which both hydrogen capacity and
sorption kinetics are sluggish at early stages and improved through the
activation processes. It was deduced that the passivation layer such as
oxides formed on the external surface gets fractured during the acti-
vation, and consequently, the internal active metal/metal hydrides are
exposed to successfully absorb or release hydrogen45. Typically such
activation is executed only with the ﬁrst cycle, and both hydrogen
absorption and desorption show a slightly improved capacity and
kinetics, which are similarly maintained in subsequent cycles. How-
ever, in our study, the activation process continues in the further
cycles, not completed until the 4th cycle. In the meantime, the hydro-
gen ab/desorption capacity gradually increases as the cycle proceeds,
and its kinetics is simultaneously enhanced. Notably, our porous
samples demand more hydrogen sorption cycles for activation com-
pared to other metal hydrides reported, while the capacity and kinetic
improvements are much more evident. It is speculated that they
undergo different structural changes or activation mechanisms from
the aforementioned metal hydrides.
To evaluate the cycle stability of synthesized porous Mg compo-
site, we measured the hydrogen capacity of pMgNi based on 2 h of
hydrogen absorption and 1 h of desorption, repeated over 50 cycles.
The kinetics of pMgNi gradually improved from the initial absorption
capacity of 2 wt.%to the stabilized capacity of approximately 6 wt.% for
absorption and 6.5 wt.% for desorption in subsequent cycles (Supple-
mentary Fig. 8). The measured hydrogen capacity slightly decreases by
0.8 wt.% at the 40th cycle and 1.1 wt.% at the 50th cycle. Although a small
decrease in capacity was observed, likely due to the potential oxidation
from continuous exposure to small amounts of oxygen during high-
temperature vacuum processes, the pMgNi demonstrates excellent
cycle stability with rapid hydrogen sorption rates.
Structural changes of porous Mg upon hydrogen cycling
To unravel the correlation between the unique activation process and
the gradual improvement of kinetics, we monitored the change in the
chemical state of the pMg surface upon hydrogen cycling by in-situ X-
ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The pMg sample was placed
under 2 barof H2 at200 °C for about 15 h for absorption, and ultra-high
vacuum (10−11bar) at 300 °C for about 15 h for desorption. All samples
were transferred through the pre-vacuum chamber interconnected to
the analysis chamber to minimize air exposure. The deconvoluted XPS
spectra of Mg 1 s are shown in Fig. 4a, where the peaks observed at
Fig. 2 | Characterization of porous metal structure. BET analysis of (a) as-synthesized pMg and (b) hydrogen-cycled pMg. Source data are provided as a Source Data ﬁle.
Table 1 | BET surface area and pore size values for each sample before and after hydrogen sorption cycling
BET surface area (m2 g−1)
Average pore width for adsorption (nm)
Average pore width for desorption (nm)
As-synthesized pMg
3.10
52.68
41.90
Hydrogen-cycled pMg
8.45
35.20
26.46
As-synthesized pMgNi
6.77
41.03
29.78
Hydrogen-cycled pMgNi
10.28
45.05
35.98
As-synthesized pMgCo
15.89
23.13
18.98
Hydrogen-cycled pMgCo
12.47
28.44
22.93
Article
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-024-55018-y
Nature Communications|   (2024) 15:10800 
4

1304.4 eV and 1303.2 eV are attributed to pristine pMg (green) and
hydrogen absorbed pMg state (pMgHx, blue), respectively (please read
Supplementary Note 3 for the deconvolution detail and Supplemen-
tary Fig. 9 for the full spectra). As hydrogen absorption and desorption
are repeated, the Mg 1 s peak is accordingly shifted, indicating that it is
caused by each hydrogen sorption reaction. However, the pattern of
such peak shift is somewhat different because zero-valent metallic Mg
should be observed at the lower binding energy region than hydro-
genated Mg, representing the hydrogen desorbed and absorbed state,
respectively. Based on the deconvolution of Mg 1 s for as-synthesized
pMg (Supplementary Fig. 1c and also see Supplementary Note 2), we
speculate that the surface of pMg consists of metallic Mg and MgO,
which leads to such representative peak at the higher binding energy
region, while it successfully absorbs hydrogen to evolve MgH2. This
trend is consistent with the O 1 s spectra obtained during the same in-
situ measurement (Supplementary Fig. 10 and also see Supplementary
Note 4), and also the bulk Mg result measured for the reference
(Supplementary Fig. 11).
With the hydrogen sorption cycles, the alternate changes in the
peak intensity are observed, where pMgHx (blue) stems from the
chemical interaction between hydrogen and Mg. For the quantitative
analysis, the XPS result is summarized in Fig. 4b, c. The peak corre-
sponding to pMgHx is gradually shifted toward the higher binding
energies as indicated in the gray area (Fig. 4b), which suggests that the
surface structure is changed to one that energetically favors hydrogen
absorption. It is noted that the increase in binding energy is referenced
to the hydrogen absorbed state during the ﬁrst cycle (Fig. 4b). Thus,
the increased binding energies observed during the subsequent
absorbed states do not originate from the stress that develops in the
hydrogen absorbed states compared to the desorbed states. Further, it
shows the exponential increment pattern as the hydrogen cycling
proceeds (Fig. 4c). Eventually, it leads to the improved hydrogen sto-
rage capacity and kinetics, which will be discussed later along with the
change of crystalline structure.
In addition, the change of Mg crystalline structure upon hydrogen
cycling was also observed by XRD (Fig. 5a). The atypically intense peak
of the (002) plane is reduced and the overall pattern is consistent with
the reference state. Such change can be attributed to the gradual
recovery from the initial Mg structure with textured surfaces to its
polycrystalline state, and it may induce an improvement in hydrogen
storage performance. For the doped nanoporous Mg samples, the
intensity reduction of the Mg (002) plane is also observed in pMgNi,
notwithstanding the marginal change (Supplementary Fig. 12a).
Essentially, its initial intensity in pMgNi is not as high as that in pMg,
and presumably this is related to fewer activation cycles required for
the pMgNi compared to the pMg. Also, the aforementioned catalytic
role of Ni in hydrogen sorption may inﬂuence such phenomenon,
along with the evolution of Mg2Ni and slight changes in chemical states
of Ni for pMgNi (Supplementary Fig. 13). In the case of pMgCo, some
impurity peaks corresponding to the CoO phase are detected due to
the oxidation as opposed to the XRD results of pMgNi and pMg, and
also the intensity change of Mg (002) facet is not prominent before
and after hydrogen cycling (Supplementary Fig. 12). Interestingly, this
observation is consistent with the relatively rapid completion of the
activation process for pMgCo. This suggests that the close-packed Mg
(002) facet with low surface energy is preferentially exposed through a
sluggish diffusion-based reaction, and it is translated into the gradual
improvement of hydrogen storage performance as this (002) plane
decreases during the activation process of hydrogen sorption cycling.
It is speculated that there should be a crystalline facet-dependent
energy barrier for hydrogen sorption, which will be discussed in the
following section.
The clear structural change upon hydrogen cycling was further
examined with TEM (Supplementary Fig. 2). For as-synthesized sam-
ples, several overlapping pores are readily distinguishable, while more
particle-like structures are observed after cycling. Also, the crystalline
size of pMg increases from 47.48 nm to 70.61 nm after hydrogen
cycling, obtained from XRD results, presumably due to the exposure to
high temperature and repeated volume change during hydrogen
absorption and desorption (Supplementary Table 1). Nevertheless, the
porous structures are well-preserved or even more developed during
the cycling based on the BET measurements, with the pMg surface area
Fig. 3 | Hydrogen absorption and desorption kinetics for porous Mg structures. a pMg, (b) pMgNi, and (c) pMgCo. Source data are provided as a Source Data ﬁle.
Article
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-024-55018-y
Nature Communications|   (2024) 15:10800 
5

increased from 3.10 m2 g−1 to 8.45 m2 g−1 upon cycling and the average
pore width reduced from 52.68 nm and 41.90 nm to 35.20 nm and
26.46 nm for adsorption and desorption, respectively (Table 1). For
pMgNi and pMgCo, both the surface areas and the average pore widths
increase upon cycling. SEM images of pMgNi and pMgCo also conﬁrm
structural changes upon hydrogen cycles through hydrogenated
states (Supplementary Fig. 3b–c and 14). Compared to hydrogen-
cycled pMg composites, the repeated volume expansion of Mg liga-
ment leads to distinct porous structures which is consistent with BET
measurements.
Kinetics analyzes of Mg geometry-dependent hydrogen
sorption
To unravel how the crystallographic facets impact the overall hydro-
genation kinetics, we construct an atomically informed continuum-
scale kinetics model for Mg ab/desorption. The 1D continuum-scale
kinetics model is inspired by Kitagawa and Tanabe’s work48. The model
assumes that hydrogen absorption proceeds by the following three
serial steps: Step 1) H2 adsorption and dissociation onto the Mg sur-
face, Step 2) surface penetration of adsorbed H atom and Step 3) H
diffusion inside the Mg bulk (Supplementary Fig. 15). The activation
energies for steps 1) and 2) are obtained from atomistic simulations, as
shown in Fig. 5b, c. The dissociation reaction exhibits similar kinetic
barriers for all the facets considered, namely 0.80 eV for (002) sur-
faces, 0.84 eV for (100) surfaces, and 0.91 eV for (101) surfaces. The
surface penetration barriers are overall lower than the dissociation
barriers, yet show larger surface dependence, with 0.57 eV for (002)
surfaces, 0.38 eV for (100) surfaces, and 0.67 eV for (101) surfaces. The
H diffusion inside sub-surface Mg is assumed independent of the
crystallographic directions, and the H diffusion barrier of 0.25 eV/atom
is assumed for diffusion inside the Mg bulk, obtained from a previous
report49. The model employs position-dependent H diffusivity, with
the H penetration barrier incorporated in the form of modiﬁed diffu-
sivity at the surface (please refer to Supplementary Note 5 for the
details of the continuum model). The computed absorption curves
show that the hydrogenation kinetics exhibits a strong Mg surface
facet-dependence and decreases in the order of (100), (002), and (101)
Mg surfaces (Fig. 5d). The computed hydrogen absorption maps show
that H diffusion signiﬁcantly affects all three surfaces, as the sloping H
concentration with respect to relative position is apparent from the
computed maps (Fig. 5e-g). In the map, 0 and 100 in the relative
positions indicate the ligament core and adsorption surfaces, respec-
tively. Hydrogen adsorption, as indicated by the color changes at the
surface layer extending from the relative position of 97 to 100, satu-
rates in the decreasing order of (002), (100), and (101), identical to the
trend in the computed adsorption energy barriers in Fig. 5b. Yet, (002)
exhibits slower hydrogen absorption than (100) surface. Since both
(002) and (100) surfaces are modeled with the identical bulk H diffu-
sion barrier, the change in absorption kinetics among the two surfaces
originates from the different surface penetration barriers for H. The
effect of surface penetration is identiﬁed by the discontinuity in H
concentration near the surface. For instance, (002) surface exhibits
rapid surface saturation within the normalized time of 0.1, as repre-
sented by the yellow color at the surface layers in Fig. 5e. On the other
hand, H penetrationto the bulk interior proceeds at a reduced rate that
we observe discontinuity in H concentration (represented by color in
Fig. 4 | Surface state analysis of pMg with hydrogen sorption cycles.
a Deconvoluted Mg 1 s in-situ XPS spectra for sequential hydrogen ab/desorption
cycles. The blue and green shading describe the deconvoluted peak of pMgHx and
pMg, respectively. (See Supplementary Fig. 9 for the full spectra). b The binding
energy and (c) relative intensity changes in the deconvoluted Mg 1 s spectra as a
function of the hydrogen ab/desorption step. Each shaded region in (b) and (c)
emphasizes the gradual trends in binding energy and relative intensity of pMg and
pMgHx. Source data are provided as a Source Data ﬁle.
Article
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-024-55018-y
Nature Communications|   (2024) 15:10800 
6

Fig. 5e) from the relative positions of 95 (subsurface) and 100 (surface).
The discontinuity in H concentration persists until the normalized time
of ~0.5. While the surface penetration-limited kinetics is notable for
(002) and (101) surfaces, (100) surface exhibits little discontinuity in H
concentration from the subsurface and surface. It is noted that the
dominant kinetics alters under lowered charging pressure. The high
charging pressure provides sufﬁcient reactant concentration such that
the dissociation kinetics does not limit the overall kinetics, as observed
in Supplementary Fig. 16.
The constructed kinetics models rationalize the experimentally
observed difference during hydrogen sorption cycling. The results are
also consistent with the results of XRD analysis before and after
hydrogen cycling. The relatively large proportion of (002) surfaces and
a small proportion of (100) surfaces retards the hydrogen absorption
reaction. After the activation process, pMg reduces (002) surfaces,
increasing the relative amount of (100) surfaces. It can also be
explained by the XRD result in Fig. 5a that the (002) peak, which is
abnormally intense before cycling, decreases after cycling. With the
increased relative proportion of (100) surfaces, it is expected that the
overall absorption kinetics improves with increased sites for facile
surface penetration, especially for pMg with a large amount of sur-
face area.
The change in the Mg-Mg bond lengths upon a small amount
(0.17 wt.%) of subsurface H atom insertion is computed for (002),
(100), and (101) Mg surfaces (Supplementary Table 2). The H-added
slab models pMg states in the hydrogen-absorbed phases. The average
Mg-Mg bond lengths for pristine Mg are 3.196, 3.182, and 3.194 Å for
(002), (100), and (101) surfaces, respectively. Upon 0.17 wt.% subsur-
face H atom insertion, the average Mg-Mg bond length decreases for
the (101) surface by 0.23% while it remains approximately identical for
the (100) surface or increases by 0.44% for the (002) surface. The
histogram analyzes (Supplementary Fig. 17) also show that the Mg-Mg
bond length with the maximum probability shifts towards a reduced
value of 3.18 Å for the (101) surface while that for the other two surfaces
remains identical at 3.21 Å. Also, the computed bond lengths present
that subsurface H insertion results in stretched Mg-Mg bonds with the
maximum bond lengths of 3.39 Å for (002) and 3.41 Å for (100) sur-
faces while that for (101) remains at 3.31 Å. It is also noted that the
average Mg-H bond lengths for (002), (100), and (101) are 2.316, 2.358,
and 2.283 Å, respectively, with the shortest Mg-H bond lengths
observed for (101) surfaces. This anisotropic response qualitatively
matches well with the observed in-situ XPS data in Fig. 4. The
increasing Mg 1 s binding energy in the H absorbed states in Fig. 4b
matches with the transformation from (002)-textured Mg surfaces to
polycrystalline surfaces with more pronounced (101) surfaces, given
that only (101) surface reduces the Mg-Mg bond lengths upon slight H
addition. Notably, the Mg-Mg binding energies for the desorbed states
remain almost identical throughout the cycles, possibly due to the
similar Mg-Mg bond lengths among pristine (002) and (101) surfaces. It
remains challenging to rationalize the increased binding energies of
pMgHx in the absorbed states, since the Bravais lattice for MgHx differs
from that of pristine Mg, making it difﬁcult to assess the effect of
surface texture on the Mg-H binding energy. Yet, the decreasing order
of Mg-H bond lengths from (100) to (002) and (101) suggests that the
Mg-H interaction is stronger in the (101) facet. It is noted that the
anisotropic Mg-Mg bond response differs in principle from the stress-
induced Mg-Mg bond length changes. As mentioned above, the shift in
Mg-Mg binding energy among the H absorbed upon cycling precludes
the effect of MgHx nucleation-induced stress on pristine Mg.
Similar crystallographic facet dependence is observed for H des-
orption kinetics from MgH2. The kinetic model for H desorption
incorporates an additional hydrogen ﬂux (jdec) from MgH2 decom-
position that contributes to the mobile hydrogen concentration
(please see Supplementary Note 5 for details). The decomposition ﬂux
was not considered in absorption since MgH2 decomposition is con-
sidered slow and insigniﬁcant during hydrogenation. Similar to
absorption, the kinetics model assumes that desorption proceeds by
four serial processes, namely, Step 1) MgH2 decomposition, Step 2)
surface H recombination and desorption (H desorption from this point
on), Step 3) diffusion of subsurface H atom to surface H vacancy (H
penetration) and Step 4) bulk H diffusion inside MgH2 crystal towards
the surface (H diffusion). We consider three low-index MgH2 facets of
Fig. 5 | Investigation of crystalline structure and kinetics changes with
hydrogen sorption cycle. XRD patterns of (a) as-synthesized and hydrogen-cycled
pMg. Crystalline facet-dependent energy barriers relevant to hydrogen sorption:
(b) H2 adsorption and dissociation barrier on Mg surfaces and (c) penetration
barrier for the adsorbed H atoms into subsurface octahedral sites. (d) The absorbed
hydrogen content on three distinct Mg surfaces of (002), (100) and (101). The
absorption time is normalized by the total simulation time for direct comparison
among the surfaces. (e–g) The absorbed hydrogen content as a function of position
and time for (e) (002), (f) (100) and (g) (101) Mg surfaces. 0 and 100 in the relative
positions indicate the ligament core and adsorption surfaces, respectively. Surface
adsorption is modeled to occur uniformly in the region that extends from the
relative position of 97 to 100. The color bar depicts the H concentration ranges (x)
in MgHx. Source data are provided as a Source Data ﬁle.
Article
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-024-55018-y
Nature Communications|   (2024) 15:10800 
7

(001), (110), and (101) for the kinetic analyzes. In our calculations,
(200) planes covered with H atoms spontaneously formed H2 mole-
cules by surface recombination and were excluded from the analyzes.
The surface H desorption (step 2 in the desorption process) for three
low-index facets of (001), (110) and (101) for the tetragonal MgH2
shows a strong facet-dependence, with the computed activation
energies of 1.77 eV, 1.17 eV and 1.41 eV for (001), (110) and (101) sur-
faces, respectively (Supplementary Fig. 18a). The H penetration bar-
riers to the surfaces (step 3) vary from 0.77 eV for (001) surface to
0.63 eV for (101) surface and 0.29 eV for (101) surface (Supplementary
Fig. 18b). The penetration barriers to the surfaces are slightly higher
than the bulk diffusion barrier in MgH2 (step 4), which is computed to
be 0.58 eV on average. The constructed kinetic models with the com-
puted sets of activation energies reveal anisotropy in H desorption
kinetics in MgH2 (Supplementary Fig. 19). As expected from the com-
puted desorption energies, (001) facet exhibits the slowest desorption
kinetics. The other two surfaces, (101) and (110), exhibit similar deso-
rption kinetics, indicating that the effect of desorption activation
energy saturates at some point. All three surfaces exhibit the sig-
niﬁcant effect of H diffusion on the initial kinetics (normalized time
< 0.5), as evidenced by the sloping colourmap over the relative posi-
tion. The latter part of the simulation process (normalized time > 0.5)
exhibits a distinct anisotropic behavior. While (110) and (101) surfaces
exhibit close to complete dehydrogenation, (001) surface exhibits
surface H desorption limiting the overall dehydrogenation kinetics. In
this regime, we observe that the dehydrogenation rate continuously
decreases over time (Supplementary Fig. 19a), potentially resulting in
kinetically limited desorption capacity.
It is also anticipated that porous Mg undergoes distinct stress
states compared to Mg particles and thus the effect of stress on the
dehydrogenation kinetics is analyzed. Assuming that the hydro-
genated phase forms a stable interface with the unreacted Mg, the
geometries during hydrogenation for both particle and porous Mg are
described in Supplementary Fig. 20. Following the derivations by Zhao
et al50., we show that porous geometries with insertion from surfaces
are reported to undergo constraint-induced compression at the sur-
face whileparticle geometries form core-shell geometries and undergo
tension at the surface (Supplementary Fig. 21 and Supplementary
Note 6). To reﬂect the effect of this stress difference on the desorption
kinetics, we ﬁrst performed activation energy calculations for surface
H desorption (step 2) and H diffusion (step 4) in strained MgH2 sys-
tems. H desorption from the (001) surface exhibits the lowered acti-
vation
barrier
as
compressive
stress
gets
applied
to
MgH2
(Supplementary Fig. 22a). When 3% biaxial compressive strain is
applied, the H desorption barrier decreases from 1.78 eV to 1.55 eV
while it increases to 1.97 eV under 3% biaxial tension. A similar decrease
in H desorption barrier is also observed for the (110) surface
(Supplementary Fig. 22b). The H diffusion barriers (step 4), on the
other hand, exhibit the opposite trends with respect to compression
(Supplementary Fig. 23). Among the three symmetrically distinct H
diffusion paths considered for H vacancy diffusion inside MgH2
(labeled Paths 1, 2 and 3)51, one of the paths (Path 3) exhibits a notable
increase in the diffusion barrier with compressive strain. The surface
penetration barrier exhibits a similar trend, in which the computed
barrier for (001) MgH2 (0.77 eV) increases to 0.98 eV upon 3% com-
pression and decreases to 0.58 eV upon 3% tension (Supplementary
Fig. 24). When incorporated into the kinetics model, we observe that
desorption from the (001) facet gets critically affected by the stress
states. While compressive strain signiﬁcantly enhances the desorption
kinetics compared to the unstrained case, tensile strain signiﬁcantly
retards the desorption kinetics such that any desorption is barely
observed during the same amount of time (Supplementary Fig. 25).
This indicates that the desorption process on (001) surface gets
strongly affected by the surface recombination (step 2) process. While
other facets are expected to behave differently, as supported by the
computed desorption activation energies, the (001) surface serves as
an example where porous geometry may exhibit enhanced kinetics
compared to spherical geometry by the effect of distinct stress states
during cycling.
The effect of Ni catalyst on the desorption kinetics of MgH2 was
also investigated through the kinetics analysis. The computed H dif-
fusion barriers with the presence of Ni next to the migrating H show
that Ni consistently lowers the diffusion barriers for all migration paths
considered compared to undoped MgH2, also consistently observed
for the strained (both tensile and compressive strain) cases (Supple-
mentary Fig. 26). In the vicinity of Ni, the average H diffusion barriers
reduce to 0.28 eV and 0.26 eV from 0.61 eV and 0.58 eV with and
without 3% compression, respectively. With the presence of surface Ni,
the surface H desorption activation energy under 3% compression
decreases from 1.55 eV to 0.98 eV compared to undoped MgH2 (Sup-
plementary Fig. 27). Similar trends are observed for Ni-doped MgH2
under no strain and 3% tension. The dramatically reduced activation
energies for all stress conditions translate to signiﬁcantly enhanced
dehydrogenation kinetics in the kinetics model for (001) surface under
3% compression (Supplementary Fig. 28), qualitatively reproducing
the experimentally observed kinetic enhancement in pMgNi. The
constructed models show that Ni doping enhances steps 2 and 4 in our
desorption model (surface H desorption and H diffusion), while the
model currently assumes that Ni does not affect the hydride decom-
position (step 1) and surface penetration barrier (step 3). The modeled
desorption kinetics in Ni-added (001) surface matches closely with the
hydride decomposition rate, indicating that the kinetics in Ni-doped
MgH2 is limited by hydride decomposition (step 1), as the other steps
become
sufﬁciently
fast
with
Ni
incorporation
(Supplemen-
tary Fig. 29).
Kinetic and thermodynamic properties of nanoporous Mg
structures for hydrogen sorption
The kinetic and thermodynamic parameters relevant to the hydrogen
storage performance of nanoporous Mg samples were experimentally
acquired to examine the effect of unique porous structures. To
investigate the kinetic properties, the activation energy for hydrogen
ab/desorption is calculated by plotting the reaction rates at three dif-
ferent temperatures as a function of hydrogen amount ab/desorbed in
Arrhenius equation–hydrogen absorption under 15 bar H2 at 200, 225,
250 °C and hydrogen desorption under 10−4bar at 275, 300, 315 °C
(Supplementary Fig. 30-31). The overall activation energy values for all
samples are summarized in Table 2. As reported in numerous litera-
tures, the activation energy values change with hydrogen concentra-
tion in hydrides as hydrogen ab/desorption proceeds, implying that
the kinetic characteristics cannot be represented with one single
value52,53. Despite such varied values, the activation energy decreases
Table 2 | Summary of kinetic and thermodynamic parameters
of pMg, pMgNi, and pMgCo
Activation Energy
(kJ mol−1)
ΔH (kJ
mol−1 H2)
ΔS (J
mol−1 K−1)
Absorption
pMg
~80
−67.2
−124.5
pMgNi
80–150
−69.9
−129.4
pMgCo
~70
−66.1
−123.5
bulk Mg
-
−75.8
−138.1
Desorption
pMg
~180
78.1
139.7
pMgNi
100~
86.7
157.6
pMgCo
140~
81.5
148.2
bulk Mg
-
82
145.7
Activation energy values were obtained through Arrhenius equation and the thermodynamic
parameters for bulk Mg were measured for comparison.
Article
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-024-55018-y
Nature Communications|   (2024) 15:10800 
8

for all three samples compared to the bulk Mg (160–200 kJ/mol and
200-240 kJ/mol for absorption and desorption, respectively) in both
absorption and desorption processes54. The activation energy of
transition metal-doped samples−pMgNi and pMgCo−is lower than that
of pMg for both absorption and desorption, consistent with their well-
known effective catalytic effect and concomitantly improved kinetic
properties. Speciﬁcally, Ni- and Co-based phases in bimetallic pMg
composites were investigated by XRD and bright ﬁeld-scanning
transmission
electron
microscopy
(BF-STEM)
(Supplementary
Figs. 12 and 32). The bimetallic phases such as Mg2Ni and Mg2Co in Mg
are known to serve as fast hydrogen pathways, providing various grain
boundaries and thermodynamically unstable hydride phases (i.e.
Mg2NiH4)55,56. To ﬁgure out the evolution of speciﬁc phases, the
bimetallic pMg composites in as-synthesized, hydrogenated, and
hydrogen-cycled states are analyzed, in which crystalline Mg with
Mg2Ni and Mg2Co is identiﬁed in hydrogen-cycled samples by XRD
patterns and BF-STEM. These newly formed phases are uniformly
distributed as particle-like status smaller than 5 nm (Supplementary
Fig. 32). Furthermore, BF-STEM images reveal hydrogenated phases
such as Mg2NiH4 which are challenging to observed in XRD patterns
(Supplementary Fig. 32a). Thus, it can be deduced that Ni and Co are
integrated with Mg to form bimetallic phases during repeated hydro-
gen cycling and to provide such notable catalytic effect.
Furthermore, we investigated the rate-determining steps of
hydrogen absorption and desorption by employing various kinetic
models such as diffusion models (1D, 2D, and 3D), Johnson-Mehl-
Avrami (JMA) model, and geometrical contraction models (R2 and R3)
for pMg and pMgNi. The ﬁtting curves based on these models were
expressed as f α
ð Þ = kt, where α is the reacted fraction, k is the reaction
constant, and t is the reaction time. For pMg, the 3D diffusion model is
found to be well-suited for absorption, identifying hydrogen diffusion
as the rate-controlling step, while the JMA model with n = 3 ﬁts well for
desorption, indicating nucleation and growth control (Supplementary
Figs. 33–34 and Supplementary Table 3). Also, pMgNi exhibits a similar
behavior for absorption, with the 3D diffusion model dominating. On
the other hand, for desorption, JMA models with both n = 2 and n = 3
are combined as the inclusion of Ni alters Mg nucleation and growth
behavior at different temperatures (Supplementary Figs. 35–36 and
Supplementary Table 4). In comparison with the previously reported
other Mg nanostructures such as nanosheets and nanoparticles (Sup-
plementary Table 5), our samples exhibit relatively enhanced hydro-
gen sorption kinetics, dictated by more exposed reactive sites and
faster pathways for hydrogen sorption due to the unique nanoporous
structure46,57.
Furthermore, the enthalpy and entropy values are obtained to
evaluate the thermodynamic characteristics of the porous structures
for hydrogen sorption. The pressure-composition-temperature (PCT)
curve at each temperature shows a distinct plateau region which
indicates the transformation of Mg to MgH2 (Fig. 6), and the equili-
brium pressure values are ﬁtted into the van’t Hoff plot (Supplemen-
tary Fig. 37). The PCT measurement was also conducted with bulk Mg
under the same condition, but at higher temperatures due to its larger
size (Supplementary Fig. 38–39). All three nanoporous structures
exhibit reduced enthalpy values for hydrogen absorption compared to
the bulk Mg, while slightly higher or similar enthalpy values are
obtained for desorption (Table 2). Possibly the unique porous struc-
ture in this study could induce such thermodynamic change during
cycling. Initially, nanoporous Mg has a rather open-pore structure
connected to each other. However, such open pores are gradually
ﬁlled after hydrogen absorption, and some of them could change to
closed pores, turning into a closed-cell-like structure. In a closed-end
pore, the hydrogen sorption behavior may be different as a result of
different shapes, curvature, and radius of the meniscus58. Meanwhile, it
was reported that the evolution of dislocation conﬁguration and
density could be expedited under compressive stress for porous metal
structures59. The porous Mg structures undergo plastic deformation
during hydrogen absorption, leading to the rapid increase of disloca-
tion density. Such a high density of dislocation could result in the shift
of Gibbs free energy relative to the equilibrium as hydrogen sorption
proceeds60,61. However, other various factors could be involved, which
collectively cause a larger desorption enthalpy, and it requires further
detailed study to elucidate such enthalpy difference and the corre-
sponding structure-property relationship. Nevertheless, it should be
noted that the porous Mg structures show a comparable hydrogen
storage performance to a few nm sizes of Mg nanoparticles, despite
that the size of the Mg ligament in our study is estimated at up to
200 nm (Supplementary Table 5). It implies that the nanoporous Mg
structures have the advantage of signiﬁcantly enhanced hydrogen
storage performance over conventional nanoparticles. It is expected
that they should be able to exhibit drastically improved hydrogen ab/
desorption properties with a reduced ligament size—when it comes to
the similar size to typically studied Mg nanoparticles—presenting a
great potential of porous structured metal hydrides for hydrogen
storage.
Fig. 6 | Thermodynamic parameters for hydrogen ab/desorption of porous Mg structures. The PCT isotherms of pMg, pMgNi, and pMgCo for hydrogen (a) absorption
and (b) desorption. Source data are provided as a Source Data ﬁle.
Article
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-024-55018-y
Nature Communications|   (2024) 15:10800 
9

Discussion
In conclusion, we successfully synthesized a highly reactive Mg
nanoporous
system
through
a
facile
organic
solution-based
approach without a harsh etching for advanced solid-state hydro-
gen storage. At the early stage of synthesis, metallic Mg is nucleated
from the surface of the metal compound in a reducing solution,
wherein the interfacial energy balances their structure. It leads to the
formation of an equilibrated crystalline phase in which a speciﬁc
facet is more exposed. During the hydrogen sorption cycle, the
crystalline phase returns to the equilibrium state as in the reference,
which is found to be a factor in the gradually improved hydrogen
storage performance–with respect to both hydrogen sorption rate
and capacity–for the nanoporous Mg system. The atomically-
informed continuum models show that the penetration barriers for
the crystalline facets and the stress state in porous Mg play sig-
niﬁcant roles in the overall kinetics, and the obtained results are
consistent with the progressively enhanced hydrogen storage per-
formance and the structural change conﬁrmed by analysis of surface
chemistry and crystalline structure. Furthermore, we envision that
the nanoporous structure of various reactive metals can be readily
produced on a large scale through this approach, which provides
new opportunities for advanced energy applications.
Methods
Synthesis of porous Mg via RID
All reaction wasperformed under Ar atmosphere. The MgCl2 precursor
was prepared by melting MgCl2 powder in an alumina crucible. The
MgCl2 powder (0.952 g, 0.01 mol) was melted by raising the tem-
perature to 750 °C for 1 h and maintaining it for 10 minutes under Ar
gas ﬂow. Subsequently, it was cooled down to room temperature, and
then the whole furnace tube was placed in a glove box to maintain the
inert environment. To prepare lithium naphthalenide solution, a fresh-
cut lithium sheet (0.207 g, 0.03 mol) was put into an anhydrous THF
solution in which naphthalene was dissolved beforehand (naphthalene
3.85 g, 0.03 mol in 0.06 L THF). The solution was stirred at room
temperature in an Ar glove box until the lithium was completely dis-
solved (approximately 3 h). The reduction of MgCl2 precursor to Mg
porous structure was performed by immersing the precursor into the
solution for 4 days with stirring. Upon the completion of reduction, the
sample was washed with anhydrous THF three times, followed by
drying under vacuum. Porous Mg doped with transition metal com-
ponents was also prepared through the same protocol except that the
mixture of NiI2 or CoCl2 (5 mol %) and MgCl2 (95 mol %) was used in the
precursor synthesis process. The MgCl2/NiI2 mixture was melted at
800 °C instead of 750 °C.
The atomistic computations of migration barriers
Neural network interatomic potentials available via Matlantis software
were used for the calculation of activation energies. The interatomic
potentials were trained on ab initio databases with Perdew-Burke-
Erzenhof pseudopotentials with D3 van der Waals corrections. All
activation energies, including surface H adsorption/desorption, sur-
face H penetration, and bulk vacancy diffusion, were computed using
climbing-image nudged elastic band (CINEB) methods. In the NEB
calculations, at least 5 intermediate states are employed between two
endpoints. The structural parameters during the NEB run were ﬁxed
while all ionic positions were allowed to fully relax. The obtained
activation energies were employed in the 1D continuum model,
explained in Supplementary Note 5 in detail.
Calculation of kinetic parameters
The activation energy was calculated from the hydrogen ab/deso-
rption kinetic curves obtained at different temperatures. After initial
activation cycles (4 cycles), the hydrogen absorption at 200, 225, and
250 °C and desorption at 285, 300, and 315 °C were conducted. Using
the Arrhenius equation with three kinetic curves obtained at three
different temperatures, the activation energy values for hydrogen ab/
desorption were calculated. The hydrogen sorption rate, which indi-
cates the change in the amount of absorbed or desorbed hydrogen
over time, was calculated from the kinetics measurement results
obtained at each temperature. This data was smoothed via the Lowess
method and the curves were divided into 1000 points for the same
designated range of hydrogen weight percent. The log(rate) versus 1/T
curve was obtained, a straight line connecting three points corre-
sponding to three different temperatures was obtained. The activation
energy value can be calculated through the curve’s slope by the
Arrhenius equation at each hydrogen weight percent.
Calculation of thermodynamic parameters
To evaluate the thermodynamic parameters of porous Mg for hydro-
gen ab/desorption, the enthalpy and entropy change were calculated.
The pressure-composition-temperature (PCT) curves were obtained at
three different temperatures– at 250, 300, and 315 °C for absorption
and 285, 300, and 315 °C for desorption–and the equilibrium pressure
values at each temperature were acquired when the reaction rate was
less than 0.00005 wt.% min−1 and the reservoir pressure was increased
by 1 bar. By ﬁtting the plateau pressure values as a function of tem-
perature to the van’t Hoff plot, the enthalpy and entropy change can be
calculated.
Data availability
The authors declare that all data supporting the ﬁndings of this study
are available within the manuscript and Supplementary Information
ﬁles or available from the corresponding author upon request. Source
data are available in the ﬁgshare repository (https://doi.org/10.6084/
m9.ﬁgshare.27282681). Source data are provided in this paper.
Code availability
There is no special code central to the conclusions, and the calculation
methods are detailed in the Methods and Supplementary Information.
Raw data and python scripts can be provided upon relevant request.
References
1.
Hydrogen on the rise. Nat. Energy 1, 16127 https://doi.org/10.1038/
nenergy.2016.127 (2016).
2.
Cipriani, G. et al. Perspective on hydrogen energy carrier and its
automotive applications. Int. J. Hydrog. Energy 39, 8482–8494
(2014).
3.
Staffell, I. et al. The role of hydrogen and fuel cells in the global
energy system. Energy Environ. Sci. 12, 463–491 (2019).
4.
Barthélémy, H. Hydrogen storage – Industrial prospectives. Int. J.
Hydrog. Energy 37, 17364–17372 (2012).
5.
Emans, M., Mori, D. & Krainz, G. Analysis of back-gas behaviour of an
automotive liquid hydrogen storage system during reﬁlling at the
ﬁlling station. Int. J. Hydrog. Energy 32, 1961–1968 (2007).
6.
Lototskyy, M. V. et al. The use of metal hydrides in fuel cell appli-
cations. Prog. Nat. Sci. 27, 3–20 (2017).
7.
Nielsen, T. K., Manickam, K., Hirscher, M., Besenbacher, F. & Jensen,
T. R. Conﬁnement of MgH2 nanoclusters within nanoporous aero-
gel scaffold materials. ACS Nano 3, 3521–3528 (2009).
8.
Choi, E., Kwak, Y. J. & Song, M. Y. Improvement of the hydrogen-
release features of Mg-graphene composite by adding nickel via
reactive ball milling. Korean J. Met. Mater. 57, 663–672 (2019).
9.
Crivello, J. C. et al. Mg-based compounds for hydrogen and energy
storage. Appl. Phys. A 122, 85 (2016).
10.
Luo, Q. et al. Kinetics in Mg-based hydrogen storage materials:
enhancement and mechanism. J. Magnes. Alloy. 7, 58–71 (2019).
11.
Bösenberg, U. et al. Pressure and temperature inﬂuence on the
desorption pathway of the LiBH4−MgH2 composite system. J. Phys.
Chem. C. 114, 15212–15217 (2010).
Article
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-024-55018-y
Nature Communications|   (2024) 15:10800 
10

12.
Peng, B., Li, L., Ji, W., Cheng, F. & Chen, J. A quantum chemical
study on magnesium(Mg)/magnesium–hydrogen(Mg–H) nano-
wires. J. Alloy. Compd. 484, 308–313 (2009).
13.
Zhang, J. et al. Recent advances on the thermal destabilization of
Mg-based hydrogen storage materials. RSC Adv. 9, 408–428
(2019).
14.
Zhu, M., Lu, Y., Ouyang, L. & Wang, H. Thermodynamic tuning of
Mg-based hydrogen storage alloys: a review. Mater. (Basel, Switz.)
6, 4654–4674 (2013).
15.
Lang, J. & Huot, J. A new approach to the processing of metal
hydrides. J. Alloy. Compd. 509, L18–L22 (2011).
16.
Huot, J., Skryabina, N. & Fruchart, D. Application of severe plastic
deformation techniques to magnesium for enhanced hydrogen
sorption properties. Metals 2, 329–343 (2012).
17.
Liu, W., Setijadi, E. J. & Aguey-Zinsou, K.-F. Tuning the thermo-
dynamic properties of MgH2 at the nanoscale via a catalyst or
destabilizing element coating strategy. J. Phys. Chem. C. 118,
27781–27792 (2014).
18.
Sun, Z. et al. Enhancing hydrogen storage properties of MgH2 by
transition metals and carbon materials: a brief review. 8 https://doi.
org/10.3389/fchem.2020.00552 (2020).
19.
Han, D. J., Bang, K. R., Cho, H. & Cho, E. S. Effect of carbon
nanoscaffolds on hydrogen storage performance of magnesium
hydride. Korean J. Chem. Eng. 37, 1306–1316 (2020).
20. Schneemann, A. et al. Nanostructured Metal Hydrides for Hydrogen
Storage. Chem. Rev. 118, 10775–10839 (2018).
21.
Yartys, V. A. et al. Magnesium based materials for hydrogen based
energy storage: Past, present and future. Int. J. Hydrog. Energy 44,
7809–7859 (2019).
22. Cui, J. et al. Mg–TM (TM: Ti, Nb, V, Co, Mo or Ni) core–shell like
nanostructures: synthesis, hydrogen storage performance and
catalytic mechanism. J. Mater. Chem. A. 2, 9645–9655 (2014).
23. Broom, D. P. et al. Concepts for improving hydrogen storage in
nanoporous materials. Int. J. Hydrog. Energy 44, 7768–7779 (2019).
24. Zhang, J. & Li, C. M. Nanoporous metals: fabrication strategies and
advanced electrochemical applications in catalysis, sensing and
energy systems. Chem. Soc. Rev. 41, 7016–7031 (2012).
25. Coaty, C. M., Corrao, A. A., Petrova, V., Khalifah, P. G. & Liu, P.
Morphological tuning of nanoporous metals prepared with con-
version reaction synthesis via thermal annealing. J. Phys. Chem. C.
123, 17873–17883 (2019).
26. Luc, W. & Jiao, F. Synthesis of nanoporous metals, oxides, carbides,
and sulﬁdes: beyond nanocasting. Acc. Chem. Res. 49, 1351–1358
(2016).
27.
Mie, Y., Ikegami, M. & Komatsu, Y. Nanoporous structure of gold
electrode fabricated by anodization and its efﬁcacy for direct
electrochemistry of human cytochrome P450. Chem. Lett. 45,
640–642 (2016).
28. Pugh, D. V., Dursun, A. & Corcoran, S. G. Formation of nanoporous
platinum by selective dissolution of Cu from Cu0.75Pt0.25. J.
Mater. Res. 18, 216–221 (2003).
29. Lu, Q. et al. Highly porous non-precious bimetallic electrocatalysts
for efﬁcient hydrogen evolution. Nat. Commun. 6, 6567 (2015).
30. Zhang, Z. et al. Generalized fabrication of nanoporous metals (Au,
Pd, Pt, Ag, and Cu) through chemical dealloying. J. Phys. Chem. C.
113, 12629–12636 (2009).
31.
Jia,F.,Yu,C.,Deng, K.&Zhang,L.NanoporousMetal(Cu,Ag, Au) ﬁlms
with high surface area: general fabrication and preliminary electro-
chemical performance. J. Phys. Chem. C. 111, 8424–8431 (2007).
32. Wang, C., Zhu, G., Liu, P. & Chen, Q. Monolithic nanoporous Zn
anode for rechargeable alkaline batteries. ACS Nano 14,
2404–2411 (2020).
33. Wang, C. & Chen, Q. Reduction-induced decomposition: sponta-
neous formation of monolithic nanoporous metals of tunable struc-
tural hierarchy and porosity. Chem. Mater. 30, 3894–3900 (2018).
34. Sadan, H. & Kaplan, W. D. Au–Sapphire (0001) solid–solid interfacial
energy. J. Mater. Sci. 41, 5099–5107 (2006).
35. Tirrell, M. Measurement of interfacial energy at solid polymer sur-
faces. Langmuir 12, 4548–4551 (1996).
36. Dušková-Smrčková, M. et al. Communicating macropores in
PHEMA-based hydrogels for cell seeding: probabilistic open pore
simulation and direct micro-CT proof. Mater. Des. 198 (2021).
37. Zallen, R. The Physics of Amorphous Solids. 135–204 (Wiley-VCH
Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, 1998). https://doi.org/10.1002/
9783527617968.
38. Tran, R. et al. Surface energies of elemental crystals. Sci 3, 160080
(2016).
39. S. Lowell, J. E. S., Martin A. Thomas, M. Thommes. Characterization
of Porous Solids and Powders: Surface Area, Pore Size and Density. 1
edn, (Springer Dordrecht, 2004).
40. Soﬁanos, M. V. et al. Novel synthesis of porous Mg scaffold as a
reactive containment vessel for LiBH4. RSC Adv. 7, 36340–36350
(2017).
41.
Coaty, C., Zhou, H., Liu, H. & Liu, P. A scalable synthesis pathway to
nanoporous metal structures. ACS Nano 12, 432–440 (2018).
42. Cho, E. S. et al. Hierarchically Controlled Inside-Out Doping of Mg
Nanocomposites for Moderate Temperature Hydrogen Storage.
Adv. Funct. Mater. 27, 1704316 (2017).
43. Pozzo, M. & Alfè, D. Hydrogen dissociation and diffusion on transi-
tion metal (=Ti, Zr, V, Fe, Ru, Co, Rh, Ni, Pd, Cu, Ag)-doped Mg(0001)
surfaces. Int. J. Hydrog. Energy 34, 1922–1930 (2009).
44. Bellosta von Colbe, J. et al. Application of hydrides in hydrogen
storage and compression: achievements, outlook, and perspec-
tives. Int. J. Hydrog. Energy 44, 7780–7808 (2019).
45. Dematteis, E. M., Berti, N., Cuevas, F., Latroche, M. & Baricco, M.
Substitutional effects in TiFe for hydrogen storage: a comprehen-
sive review. Mater. Adv. 2, 2524–2560 (2021).
46. Cho, H., Hyeon, S., Park, H., Kim, J. & Cho, E. S. Ultrathin magnesium
nanosheet for improved hydrogen storage with ﬁshbone shaped
one-dimensional carbon matrix. ACS Appl. Energy Mater. 3,
8143–8149 (2020).
47. Cho, Y., Kang, S., Wood, B. C. & Cho, E. S. Heteroatom-doped
graphenes as actively interacting 2D encapsulation media for Mg-
based hydrogen storage. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 14,
20823–20834 (2022).
48. Kitagawa, Y. & Tanabe, K. Development of a kinetic model of
hydrogen absorption and desorption in magnesium and analysis of
the rate-determining step. Chem. Phys. Lett. 699, 132–138 (2018).
49. Nishimura, C., Komaki, M. & Amano, M. Hydrogen permeation
through magnesium. J. Alloy. Compd. 293-295, 329–333 (1999).
50. Zhao, K., Pharr, M., Hartle, L., Vlassak, J. J. & Suo, Z. Fracture and
debonding in lithium-ion batteries with electrodes of hollow
core–shell nanostructures. J. Power Sources 218, 6–14 (2012).
51.
Han, D. J. et al. Tailoring hierarchical pore structures in carbon
scaffolds for hydrogen storage of nanoconﬁned magnesium.
Chem. Eng. J. 481, 148451 (2024).
52. Shriniwasan, S., Tien, H.-Y., Tanniru, M. & Tatiparti, S. S. V. On the
parameters of johnson-mehl-avrami-kolmogorov equation for the
hydride growth mechanisms: a case of MgH2. J. Alloy. Compd. 742,
1002–1005 (2018).
53. Perejón, A., Sánchez-Jiménez, P. E., Criado, J. M. & Pérez-Maqueda,
L. A. Magnesium hydride for energy storage applications: the
kinetics of dehydrogenation under different working conditions. J.
Alloy. Compd. 681, 571–579 (2016).
54. Aguey-Zinsou, K.-F. & Ares-Fernández, J.-R. Hydrogen in magne-
sium: new perspectives toward functional stores. Energy Environ.
Sci. 3, 526–543 (2010).
55. Fu, Y. et al. Effect of in-situ formed Mg2Ni/Mg2NiH4 compounds on
hydrogen storage performance of MgH2. Int. J. Hydrog. Energy 45,
28154–28162 (2020).
Article
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-024-55018-y
Nature Communications|   (2024) 15:10800 
11

56. Yong, H. et al. Dual-tuning of de/hydrogenation kinetic properties of
Mg-based hydrogen storage alloy by building a Ni-/Co-multi-plat-
form collaborative system. Int. J. Hydrog. Energy 46,
24202–24213 (2021).
57. Thornton, A. W. et al. Materials genome in action: identifying the
performance limits of physical hydrogen storage. Chem. Mater. 29,
2844–2854 (2017).
58. Nguyen, P. T., Do, D. D. & Nicholson, D. On the irreversibility of the
adsorption isotherm in a closed-end pore. Langmuir 29,
2927–2934 (2013).
59. Ruestes, C. J. et al. Plastic deformation of a porous bcc metal
containing nanometer sized voids. Comp. Mater. Sci. 88,
92–102 (2014).
60. Flanagan, T. B. & Clewley, J. D. Hysteresis in Metal-Hydrides. J. Less-
Common Met. 83, 127–141 (1982).
61.
Flanagan, T. B., Clewley, J. D., Kuji, T., Park, C. N. & Everett, D. H.
Isobaric and isothermal hysteresis in metal-hydrides and oxides. J.
Chem. Soc. Farad T 1 82, 2589–2604 (1986).
Acknowledgements
E.S.C., H.K., and H.K. were funded by the Saudi Aramco-KAIST CO2
Management Center and also supported by the National R&D Program
through the National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF) funded by the
Ministry of Science and ICT (NRF-2022K1A4A8A01080242). W.K. and
S.P. were supported by the National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF-
2022M3D1A209531511) and KIST Institutional Program (Project No.
2V09352). C.K. and S.K. were supported by the National Research
Foundation of Korea (NRF), funded by the Ministry of Science and ICT,
the Republic of Korea (No. NRF RS-2024-00402289).
Author contributions
E.S.C. and H.K. (Hyesun Kim) conceived the idea and designed the
research. H.K. (Hyesun Kim) and H.K. (HyeonJi Kim) carried out the
experiment. E.S.C., H.K. (Hyesun Kim), and H.K. (HyeonJi Kim) analyzed
the result. W.K. and S.P. performed the in-situ XPS characterizations and
analyzed the data. C.K. and S.K. performed the atomistic computations,
kinetics modeling and analyzed the data. S.W.J., T.H., and J.H.S. con-
tributed to the PCT measurement. H.K. (Hyesun Kim) and H.K. (HyeonJi
Kim) wrote the manuscript under the supervision of E.S.C., and A.J.
participated in the discussion. All authors contributed to discussions on
the experiment and preparation of the manuscript. The authors
appreciate Jinseok Koh for assisting illustration work.
Competing interests
Six patents related to synthetic methods of porous Mg and its bimetallic
composites have been ﬁled as Korean Patent (application no. 10-2022-
0040637), U.S. Patent (application no. 18/852.442), Saudi Arabian
Patent (application no. SA 1120245363), Japanese Patent (application no.
2024-558235), German Patent and Chinese Patent by KAIST and Saudi
Aramco. The patents address preparation methodology of porous Mg
and bimetallic structures via RID reaction using MgCl2 and lithium
naphthalenide, and characteristics of these composites including the
crystallinity, morphology, and hydrogen sorption kinetics. E.S.C., H.K.
(Hyesun Kim), H. K. (HyeonJi Kim), and A.J. are the inventors of these
patents. The remaining authors declare no competing interests.
Additional information
Supplementary information The online version contains
supplementary material available at
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-024-55018-y.
Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to
Sangtae Kim or Eun Seon Cho.
Peer review information Nature Communications thanks the anon-
ymous reviewer(s) for their contribution to the peer review of this work. A
peer review ﬁle is available.
Reprints and permissions information is available at
http://www.nature.com/reprints
Publisher’s note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jur-
isdictional claims in published maps and institutional afﬁliations.
Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License,
which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, distribution and
reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate
credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the
Creative Commons licence, and indicate if you modiﬁed the licensed
material. You do not have permission under this licence toshare adapted
material derived from this article or parts of it. The images or other third
party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative
Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the
material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons
licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or
exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly
from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit http://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/.
© The Author(s) 2024
Article
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-024-55018-y
Nature Communications|   (2024) 15:10800 
12
